[LIP-1] Simplify protocol, specify explicit protocol flows & provide test vectors. (#84)
diem/lip: lips/lip-1.mdx

# Versions

| Version | Revision | Link      |
|---------|----------|-----------|
| v2      | current  | n/a       |
| v1      | e82a0eb8a9dd5d498fc89bf84565cc7adae3d8ef/lips/lip-1 | https://github.com/diem/lip/blob/e82a0eb8a9dd5d498fc89bf84565cc7adae3d8ef/lips/lip-1.mdx  |

V2 changes:

* Only allow one actor to send command for mutating object.
* Removed Command `_writes` and `_reads` with object versioning.
* Changed reference_id to use 128 bit UUID according to [RFC4122](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4122).
* additional_kyc_data field is moved from KycDataObject to PaymentActorObject.
* Protocol URL is changed, removed sender/receiver's address in the URL path, added X-VERIFICATION-KEY-ADRRESS HTTP header for looking up JWS verification key.
* Removed payment actor StatusEnum: needs_recipient_signature and pending_review.
* Required to set sender's kyc_data for initial PaymentCommand.
* Required to set receiver's kyc_data and recipient signature when receiver actor's status is set to ready_for_settlement.

> * Updated corresponding example code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Simplifications to state management:
  * Allow only one actor to send command for mutating object.
  * Removed Command `_writes` and `_reads` with object versioning - no longer needed when only a single actor can mutate an object in each object state
  * Required to set sender's kyc_data for initial PaymentCommand.
  * Required to set receiver's kyc_data and recipient signature when receiver actor's status is set to ready_for_settlement.
  * Removed payment actor StatusEnum: needs_recipient_signature and pending_review - no longer needed with updated state flow.
* Changed reference_id to use 128 bit UUID according to [RFC4122](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4122).
* additional_kyc_data field is moved from KycDataObject to PaymentActorObject. Allows KycDataObject to be set once and never mutated.
* Protocol URL is changed, removed sender/receiver's address in the URL path, added X-VERIFICATION-KEY-ADRRESS HTTP header for looking up JWS verification key.
* Updated corresponding example code.
```

Reviewer: @xli

The remainder of this document details the specifications for Commands, Objects and the typical and exceptional flows to define Payments and their Commands.

---
# Specification
---

### Terminology

**Object**: A record. A PaymentObject is an example of an Object representing a payment.

**Command**: An instruction sent over a Channel to mutate/create one or more Objects. In the case of a mutation, this Command will depend upon the current value of one of more existing Shared Objects.

**Channel**: The communication path between a pair of entities who execute Commands and track the evolution of a set of Shared Objects.

> **Shared Object**: All Objects contained within a Command are logically shared, meaning that each VASP has a copy of the Object and may create a new Command to modify it. For example, during the lifecycle of a `KycDataObject`, both VASPs will add information to it. The protocol does not support simultaneous updates to Objects. Rather, VASPs must take turns updating the Object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Shared Object**: All Objects contained within a Command are logically shared, meaning that each VASP has a copy of the Object and may create a new Command to modify it. For example, during the lifecycle of a `KycDataObject`, both VASPs will add information to it. The protocol does not support simultaneous updates to Objects. Rather, VASPs must take turns updating the Object - with turns specified as per the [command sequence](#paymentobject-protocol-command-sequence).
```

> **Reference ID**: Every Object type contains a `reference_id` field which is a unique reference ID for the Object. The reference ID is always specified by the payment initiator VASP (the VASP which originally created the Object). This value should be global unique. We recommend use a 128 bits long UUID according to [RFC4122](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4122).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Reference ID**: Every Object type contains a `reference_id` field which is a unique reference ID for the Object. The reference ID is always specified by the payment initiator VASP (the VASP which originally created the Object). This value should be globally unique. It is recommended to use a 128 bit long UUID according to [RFC4122](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4122).
```

Reviewer 2: Let's be explicit about whether "-" is needed here.

### HTTP end-point

Each VASP exposes an HTTPS POST end point at `https://<hostname>:<port>/<protocol_version>/command`. The `protocol_version` is `v2` for this iteration of the off-chain APIs.
The base url value should be the url without path `/<protocol_version>/command`, e.g. `https://<hostname>:<port>`.

### HTTP Headers

All HTTP requests and responses must contain:

* A header `X-REQUEST-ID` with a unique UUID for the request, used for tracking requests and debugging. Responses must have the same string in the `X-REQUEST-ID` header value as the requests they correspond to.
* A header `X-VERIFICATION-KEY-ADRRESS` with the LIP-5 Diem address of the VASP signing the HTTP request or HTTP response. This header is used to retrieve the VASP verification key used to authenticate the request or response. The value must be the HTTP request sender’s VASP LIP-5 address used in the command, for example: the value should be sender/receiver actor address from PaymentObject in PaymentCommand.

Both `X-REQUEST-ID` and `X-VERIFICATION-KEY-ADRRESS` are case insensitive according to HTTP protocol [RFC2616](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2616.txt).

### Payloads

> The exposed endpoint receives JWS signed `CommandRequestObject`s in the POST body, and responds with a JWS signed `CommandResponseObject`s in the HTTP response (See [Request/Response Payload](#requestresponse-payload) for more details. Single Command requests-responses are supported (HTTP1.0) but also pipelined request-responses are supported (HTTP1.1). The content type of the HTTP request/response is ignored.  All structures transmitted, nested within `CommandRequestObject` and `CommandResponseObject` are valid JSON serialized Objects and can be parsed and serialized using standard JSON libraries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The exposed endpoint receives JWS signed `CommandRequestObject`s in the POST body, and responds with a JWS signed `CommandResponseObject`s in the HTTP response (See [Request/Response Payload](#requestresponse-payload) for more details). Single Command requests-responses are supported (HTTP1.0) but also pipelined request-responses are supported (HTTP1.1). The content type of the HTTP request/response is ignored.  All structures transmitted, nested within `CommandRequestObject` and `CommandResponseObject` are valid JSON serialized Objects and can be parsed and serialized using standard JSON libraries.
```

<img alt="Command Exchange" src={useBaseUrl('img/command_exchange.png')} />

As mentioned in [Terminology](#terminology), every Object type contains a `reference_id` field which is a unique reference ID for the Object. At each state of an Object, only one VASP is allowed to mutate it (or none if the Object is in a terminal state). If the other VASP tries to mutate the object the command will be rejected. This prevents concurrent attempts to update Objects that could lead to inconsistencies.

# Network Error Handling

In the case of network failure, the sending party for this Command is required to re-send the Command until it gets a response from the counterparty VASP. An exponential backoff is suggested for Command re-sends.

Upon receipt of a Command that has already been processed (resulting in a success response or a Command error), the receiving side must reply with the same response as was previously issued (successful commands, or commands that fail with a command error, are idempotent). Requests that resulted in protocol errors may result in different responses.
For example:

> * VASP A sends a request to VASP B failed with an unknown network error. VASP A retried the send request to VASP B.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* VASP A sends a request to VASP B which failed with an unknown network error. VASP A retried the send request to VASP B.
```

* VASP B received both requests, and processed them in parallel. However the first request that VASP A considered as failure acquired the object / data lock by reference id.
* VASP B processed first request successfully and replied a success response, but VASP A didn’t receive it.

> * VASP B respond a protocol error for the second request as it can’t acquire the object / data lock by reference id.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* VASP B responded with a protocol error for the second request as it can’t acquire the object / data lock by reference id.
```

The Off-Chain Protocol relates to _supporting compliance_, and in particular supporting the implementation of the _Travel Rule_ requirements that VASPs may be required to follow. Those requirements generally specify that when money transfers above a certain amount are executed by VASPs, some information about the sender and recipient of funds must become available to both VASPs. The Off-Chain Protocols allows VASPs to exchange this information privately.

The Off-Chain Protocol provides higher levels of privacy than those that can be achieved directly on a Blockchain. The exact details of the customer accounts involved in a payment, as well as personal information that may need to be exchanged to support compliance, remain off-chain. The information is exchanged within a secure, authenticated and encrypted, Channel and would only be made available to the parties that strictly require them.

## Overview

> Two VASPs participate in the off-chain protocol. They communicate through HTTP request and responses protected with TLS, and exchange messages that are signed to ensure authenticity and integrity. The goal of the off-chain protocol is for a pair of VASPs to jointly create a `PaymentObject` containing a reference-id. When a `PaymentObject` is **completed**, both VASPs have identical copies of it, and both and can map its reference-id to the object. A completed `PaymentObject` can be submitted by either VASP to the Blockchain to settle.

Author: Thanks fixed!

**Reference ID**: Every Object type contains a `reference_id` field which is a unique reference ID for the Object. The reference ID is always specified by the payment initiator VASP (the VASP which originally created the Object). This value should be unique. We recommend the hexadecimal representation of a fresh >16 bytes random byte-string as a way of creating such values.

### On-Chain Account Setup
A VASP's on-chain account must be created and set up in accordance with the standard VASP account creation process.

Of particular note for off-chain APIs is the compliance key value.  This is the Ed25519 key with which a VASP signs travel rule statements on-chain and all off-chain requests and responses. During account creation, a VASP will set their compliance key which will be stored under the primary VASP account.

### HTTP end-point

Each VASP exposes an HTTPS POST end point at `https://<hostname>:<port>/<protocol_version>/command`. The `protocol_version` is initially `v1` for this iteration of the off-chain APIs.

### HTTP Headers

> All HTTP requests and responses must contain:

Reviewer 2: let's be explicit here x-request-id and others are case-insensitive.

Author: Ok, I added: Both 

> `X-REQUEST-ID` and `X-VERIFICATION-KEY-ADRRESS` are case insensitive.

### On-Chain Account Setup
A VASP's on-chain account must be created and set up in accordance with the standard VASP account creation process.

Of particular note for off-chain APIs is the compliance key value.  This is the Ed25519 key with which a VASP signs travel rule statements on-chain and all off-chain requests and responses. During account creation, a VASP will set their compliance key which will be stored under the primary VASP account.

### HTTP end-point

Each VASP exposes an HTTPS POST end point at `https://<hostname>:<port>/<protocol_version>/command`. The `protocol_version` is initially `v1` for this iteration of the off-chain APIs.

### HTTP Headers
All HTTP requests and responses must contain:

* A header `X-REQUEST-ID` with a unique ID for the request, used for tracking requests and debugging. Responses must have the same string in the `X-REQUEST-ID` header value as the requests they correspond to.

> * A header `X-VERIFICATION-KEY-ADRRESS` with the LIP-5 Libra address of the VASP signing the HTTP reqquest or HTTP response. This header is used to retrieve the VASP verification key used to authenticate the request or response. For HTTP requests, the header is set to the VASP parent address initiating the request. For HTTP response, the header is set to the parent VASP address of the VASP responding.

Reviewer 3: may use VASP parent / DESIGNATED DEALER

> * A header `X-VERIFICATION-KEY-ADRRESS` with the LIP-5 Libra address of the VASP signing the HTTP reqquest or HTTP response. This header is used to retrieve the VASP verification key used to authenticate the request or response. For HTTP requests, the header is set to the VASP parent address initiating the request. For HTTP response, the header is set to the parent VASP address of the VASP responding.

Reviewer 2: I changed my view with this `X-VERIFICATION-KEY-ADRRESS`. I think what should be here is just the acting VASP's address. Two reasons:

1. This helps with the receiving VASP to identity who it is talking to more quickly. It's possible that a VASP only wants to talk to VASP A, but not VASP B, even though they are all children of VASP C. Using `verification-key-address` makes VASPs need to dig into the payloads (and doing expensive crypto ops) to see the exact VASP address. This is not an imaginary scenario, Novi deals with this today.

2. A sound verification should check the address in the header matches the one in PaymentActor (which I think current implementation misses too?). Now this may be subjective, but checking `the one in header == the one in PaymentActor` is more intuitive than checking `the one in header parents the one in Payment Actor`.

The only advantage of having `verification-key-address` in header I think is the convenience of getting the compliance key. But stepping back a bit, wouldn't it be more convenient to directly attach the public key in header?

Reviewer 3: use address will make sure it is a valid onchain vasp / dd account, given onchain account creation process. attach public key will make it open to everyone.

Author: My thoughts on this:

* I like the idea of having here the acting VASP, rather than the parent VASP. A correct implementation should check that the acting VASP has a payload signed by the parent VASP, and this indirection forces the check to retrieve the key.
* Due to the previous point, I would prefer to not attach the verification key. If we do this invited implementors to not check the binding between VASP - Parent VASP - verification key as they should.

PS I think the current offchain implementation does not deal with parent VASPs, and instead assumes it is given a direct tuple of (acting VASP, parent key). Then then checks do happen in the check-payment logic I believe.

If VASP A fails to receive a response from VASP B, or in the case of specific protocol failure codes, it must re-send the request at some cadence until a response is received to ensure eventual consistency.

<img alt="Command Exchange" src={useBaseUrl('img/command_exchange.png')} />

As mentioned in [Terminology](#terminology), every Object type contains a `reference_id` field which is a unique reference ID for the Object. At each state of an Object, only one VASP is allowed to mutate it (or none if the Object is in a terminal state). If the other VASP tries to mutate the object the command will be rejected. This prevents concurrent attempts to update Objects that could lead to inconsistencies.

# Network Error Handling

In the case of network failure, the sending party for this Command is required to re-send the Command until it gets a response from the counterparty VASP.  An exponential backoff is suggested for Command re-sends.  This retransmission strategy allows the Off-Chain Protocol to achieve [eventual consistency](#eventual-consistency) of the Shared Objects.

> Upon receipt of a Command that has already been processed (resulting in a success response or a Command error), the receiving side must reply with the same response as was previously issued (successful commands, or commands that fail with a command error, are _idempotent_). Requests that resulted in protocol errors (such as `wait`) may result in different responses. For example if VASP A sends a Requests to VASP B, and VASP B responds with a `wait` protocol error, later VASP A may re-send the same request, and VASP B may respond with a `success` or a different error.

Reviewer: Do we still have the wait error anymore?  It kind of seems like we wouldn't need it now?

The Off-Chain Protocol relates to _supporting compliance_, and in particular supporting the implementation of the _Travel Rule_ requirements that VASPs may be required to follow. Those requirements generally specify that when money transfers above a certain amount are executed by VASPs, some information about the sender and recipient of funds must become available to both VASPs. The Off-Chain Protocols allows VASPs to exchange this information privately.

The Off-Chain Protocol provides higher levels of privacy than those that can be achieved directly on a Blockchain. The exact details of the customer accounts involved in a payment, as well as personal information that may need to be exchanged to support compliance, remain off-chain. The information is exchanged within a secure, authenticated and encrypted, Channel and would only be made available to the parties that strictly require them.

## Overview

> Two VASPs participate in the off-chain protocol. They communicate through HTTP requests and responses protected with TLS, and exchange messages that are signed to ensure authenticity and integrity. The goal of the off-chain protocol is for a pair of VASPs to jointly create a `PaymentObject` containing a Reference ID. When a `PaymentObject` is **completed**, both VASPs have identical copies of the object and its Reference ID. A completed `PaymentObject` can be submitted by the Blockchain to settle.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Two VASPs participate in the off-chain protocol. They communicate through HTTP requests and responses protected with TLS, and exchange messages that are signed to ensure authenticity and integrity. The goal of the off-chain protocol is for a pair of VASPs to jointly create a `PaymentObject` containing a Reference ID. When a `PaymentObject` is **completed**, both VASPs have identical copies of the object and its Reference ID. A completed `PaymentObject` can be submitted to the Blockchain to settle.
```

A VASP can define a `PaymentCommand` that creates or updates a single `PaymentObject`. Each `PaymentCommand` is sent to the other VASP in a `CommandRequestObject` and responded to by a `CommandResponseObject`. A success status in the response signals that the command was a success and the payment is updated by both VASPs (a command failure indicates the command is invalid, and a protocol failure indicates the command should be resubmitted at a later time).

> A VASP initially creates a `PaymentObject`, and then VASPs take turns updating it, through successful `PaymentCommands`, until it is ready to be settled or aborted. In a typical protocol flow, the VASP representing the sender would define the `PaymentObject` and include the sender's KYC information. The receiver VASP would check this information and either request more (see `soft-match` flows), abort, or signal that it is ready to settle the payment by updating sending the receiver's KYC information. The sender's VASP would check the receiver's KYC, and request more, abort, or settle the payment on-chain.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
A VASP initially creates a `PaymentObject`, and then VASPs take turns updating it, through successful `PaymentCommand`s, until it is ready to be settled or aborted. In a typical protocol flow, the VASP representing the sender would define the `PaymentObject` and include the sender's KYC information. The receiver VASP would check this information and either request more (see `soft-match` flows), abort, or signal that it is ready to settle the payment by sending the receiver's KYC information. The sender's VASP would check the receiver's KYC, and request more, abort, or settle the payment on-chain.
```

### On-Chain Account Setup

A VASP's on-chain account must be created and set up in accordance with the standard VASP account creation process.

Of particular note for off-chain APIs is the compliance key and base url values. The compliance key value is the Ed25519 key with which a VASP signs travel rule statements which are verified on-chain and all off-chain requests and responses. During account creation, a VASP will set their compliance key and base url which will be stored under the primary VASP account (Parent VASP account).

### HTTP end-point

Each VASP exposes an HTTPS POST end point at `https://<hostname>:<port>/<protocol_version>/command`. The `protocol_version` is `v2` for this iteration of the off-chain APIs.
The base url value should be the url without path `/<protocol_version>/command`, e.g. `https://<hostname>:<port>`.

### HTTP Headers

All HTTP requests must contain:

> * A header `X-REQUEST-ID` with a unique UUID (according to [RFC4122](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4122) with "-"'s included) for the request, used for tracking requests and debugging. Responses must have the same string in the `X-REQUEST-ID` header value as the requests they correspond to.

Reviewer 5: Did we decide if response also needs X-REQUEST-ID?

Reviewer: Yeah, we are leaving it for now.  Xiao says it's useful for debugging purposes and we are going to ask George about it when he returns

> * A header `X-REQUEST-SENDER-ADDRESS` with the HTTP request sender's VASP DIP-5 address used in the command object. The HTTP request sender must use the compliance key of the VASP account linked with this address to sign the request JWS body, and the request receiver uses this address to find the request sender's compliance key for verifying the JWS signature. For example: if the http request sender is the PaymentCommand receiver actor, then this value should be the receiver actor address from PaymentObject in PaymentCommand, and if the receiver actor address contains a ChildVASP onchain account, the request JWS body must be signed by the compliance key stored in the ParentVASP account of the ChildVASP account.

Reviewer 2: I'm trying to make this more clear: ignore me if you don't think it's better:

```suggestion
* A header `X-REQUEST-SENDER-ADDRESS` with the HTTP request sender's VASP DIP-5 address used in the command object. The HTTP request sender must use the compliance key of the VASP account linked with this address to sign the request JWS body, and the request receiver uses this address to find the request sender's compliance key to verify the JWS signature. For example: VASP A transfers funds to VASP B. In the HTTP request A sends to B, it contains `X-REQUEST-SENDER-ADDRESS` as VASP A's address. In HTTP request B sends to A, it contains `X-REQUEST-SENDER-ADDRESS` as VAPS B's address. 
```

Reviewer 5: Should link "DIP-5 address" with the DIP spec

Reviewer 5: "In HTTP request B sends to A,..." -> "An HTTP request B sends to A should contain VASP B's address as `X-REQUEST-SENDER-ADDRESS`.

Reviewer: Updated

Upon receipt of a Command that has already been processed (resulting in a success response or a Command error), the receiving side must reply with the same response as was previously issued (successful commands, or commands that fail with a command error, are idempotent). Requests that resulted in protocol errors may result in different responses.
For example:

* VASP A sends a request to VASP B which failed with an unknown network error. VASP A retried the send request to VASP B.
* VASP B received both requests, and processed them in parallel. However the first request that VASP A considered as failure acquired the object / data lock by reference id.
* VASP B processed the first request successfully and replied with a successful response, but VASP A didn’t receive it.
* VASP B responded with a protocol error for the second request as it can’t acquire the object / data lock by reference id.
* VASP A received failure for the second request, later VASP A may re-send the same request, and VASP B may respond with a success because the request was processed successfully.

# Request/Response Payload

> All requests between VASPs are structured as [`CommandRequestObject`s](#commandrequestobject) and all responses are structured as [`CommandResponseObject`s](#commandresponseobject).  The resulting request takes a form of the following (prior to JWS signing):

Reviewer 5: FYI "[`CommandRequestObject`s](#commandrequestobject)" messes up formatting: https://github.com/gdanezis/lip/blob/lip-1-update/lips/lip-1.mdx#requestresponse-payload

Reviewer: thanks, fixed

**Channel**: The communication path between a pair of entities who execute Commands and track the evolution of a set of Shared Objects.

**Shared Object**: All Objects contained within a Command - for example `PaymentObject`s, are considered as "Shared Objects" - meaning that either VASP may create a new Command to modify the Object, and will do so during the typical life-cycle of an Object - an example being the addition of required data within the `KycDataObject` from both VASPs to a payment Object. Only one VASPs in a Channel can may at any time attempt to initiate and execute a Commands on Shared Objects, defined by the state of the Object.

**Version**: The state of an Object at a specific point in time. Upon creation an Object is assigned version 0. Every creation or mutation increases the Version of the Object which was created/mutated by one.  VASPs operate upon the latest Version of Shared Objects.  Once a Version is mutated, it is no longer a valid Version upon which a new Command may depend - the newly updated value of the Version is the latest Version for that Object and must be acted upon.

> **reference_id**: Every Object type contains a `reference_id` field which is a unique reference ID for the Object. The reference ID is always specified by the payment initiator VASP (the VASP which originally created the Object). This value should be unique. We recommend the hexadecimal representation of a fresh >16 bytes random byte-string as a way of creating such values. The field is Unicode utf-8 encoded.

Reviewer 2: I want to bring up this question again: 
What are the benefits of allowing utf-8 charsets v.s plain and simple alphanumeric? 
Using utf-8 charsets complicates databases (e.g. MySQL) operations and needs extra caution to deal with regard SQL injection.

Reviewer 6: Do you guys think it makes sense to add regex to reference_id (and other fields)? I think allowing _any_ character for reference id is certainly a bad thing

Reviewer 3: could we consider UUID only?

Reviewer 3: if someone put in sequence: 1, 2, 3 from their db index, is it ok? when 2 vasps do this, it's a problem right?

Reviewer 6: We should probably say that unique identifier of a payment is (sender, receiver, ref_id), so different vasp don't need to worry about clash with other vasps

Author: Good point @andll !

Reviewer 3: (sender, receiver, ref_id) as unique identifier won't work if you reference this in another payment object, it will be very confusing to figure out what is sender and receiver  of the refered id

### On-Chain Account Setup
A VASP's on-chain account must be created and set up in accordance with the standard VASP account creation process.

Of particular note for off-chain APIs is the compliance key value.  This is the Ed25519 key with which a VASP signs travel rule statements on-chain and all off-chain requests and responses. During account creation, a VASP will set their compliance key which will be stored under the primary VASP account.

### HTTP end-point

Each VASP exposes an HTTPS POST end point at `https://<hostname>:<port>/<protocol_version>/command`. The `protocol_version` is initially `v1` for this iteration of the off-chain APIs.

### HTTP Headers
All HTTP requests and responses must contain a header `X-Request-ID` with a unique ID for the request, used for tracking requests and debugging. Responses must have the same string in the `X-Request-ID` header value as the requests they correspond to.

### Payloads

> The exposed endpoint receives JWS signed `CommandRequestObject`s in the POST body, and responds with a JWS signed `CommandResponseObject`s in the HTTP response (See [Request/Response Payload](#requestresponse-payload) for more details. Single Command requests-responses are supported (HTTP1.0) but also pipelined request-responses are supported (HTTP1.1). The content type of the HTTP request/response is ignored. The version for the Off-Chain Protocol is the string `v1`.  All structures transmitted, nested within `CommandRequestObject` and `CommandResponseObject` are valid JSON serialized Objects and can be parsed and serialized using standard JSON libraries.

Author: Yeah, that is odd. Removed since we say it before along with URL format.

The remaining of this document details the specifications for Commands, Objects and the typical and exceptional flows to define Payments and their Commands.

---
# Specification
---

# Terminology
**Object**: Equivalent to a record in a database.  A PaymentObject is an example of an Object representing a payment.

**Command**: An instruction sent over a Channel to mutate/create one or more Objects.  In the case of a mutation, this Command will depend upon the current value of one of more existing Shared Objects.

**Channel**: The communication path between a pair of entities who execute Commands and track the evolution of a set of Shared Objects.

> **Shared Object**: All Objects contained within a Command - for example `PaymentObject`s, are considered as "Shared Objects" - meaning that either VASP may create a new Command to modify the Object, and will do so during the typical life-cycle of an Object - an example being the addition of required data within the `KycDataObject` from both VASPs to a payment Object. Only one VASPs in a Channel can may at any time attempt to initiate and execute a Commands on Shared Objects, defined by the state of the Object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Shared Object**: All Objects contained within a Command - for example `PaymentObject`s, are considered as "Shared Objects" - meaning that either VASP may create a new Command to modify the Object, and will do so during the typical life-cycle of an Object - an example being the addition of required data within the `KycDataObject` from both VASPs to a payment Object. Only one VASP in a Channel may at any time attempt to initiate and execute a Command on Shared Objects, defined by the state of the Object.
```

Of particular note for off-chain APIs is the compliance key value.  This is the Ed25519 key with which a VASP signs travel rule statements on-chain and all off-chain requests and responses. During account creation, a VASP will set their compliance key which will be stored under the primary VASP account.

### HTTP end-point

Each VASP exposes an HTTPS POST end point at `https://<hostname>:<port>/<protocol_version>/<LocalVASPAddress>/<RemoteVASPAddress>/command`.

* `protocol_version` is initially `v1` for this iteration of the off-chain APIs.
* `LocalVASPAddress` and `RemoteVASPAddress` are the bech32 VASP addresses of the respective VASPs - with the subaddress set to 0's as per [LIP 5](https://lip.libra.org/lip-5/).
    * An example URL: http://127.0.0.1:7091/v1/lbr1pg9q5zs2pg9q5zs2pg9q5zs2pgyqqqqqqqqqqqqqqspa3m/lbr1pgfpyysjzgfpyysjzgfpyysjzggqqqqqqqqqqqqqxjt54z/command

### HTTP Headers
All HTTP requests and responses must contain a header `X-Request-ID` with a unique ID for the request, used for tracking requests and debugging. Responses must have the same string in the `X-Request-ID` header value as the requests they correspond to.

### Payloads

> The exposed endpoint receives JWS signed `CommandRequestObject`s in the POST body, and responds with a JWS signed `CommandResponseObject`s in the HTTP response (See [Request/Response Payload](#requestresponse-payload) for more details. Single Command requests-responses are supported (HTTP1.0) but also pipelined request-responses are supported (HTTP1.1). The content type of the HTTP request/response is ignored. The version for the Off-Chain Protocol is the string `0`.  All structures transmitted, nested within `CommandRequestObject` and `CommandResponseObject` are valid JSON serialized Objects and can be parsed and serialized using standard JSON libraries.

Reviewer 3: `0` -> `v1`

Author: Done!

If VASP A fails to receive a response from VASP B, or in the case of specific protocol failure codes, it must re-send the request at some cadence until a response is received to ensure eventual consistency.

<img alt="Command Exchange" src={useBaseUrl('img/command_exchange.png')} />

### Command Sequencing: Object Versioning and Next Writer

As mentioned in [Terminology](#terminology), every Object type contains a `reference_id` field which is a unique reference ID for the Object. Each VASP also associates with an object its **latest version**, which is 0 upon creation and increases by one with every command on the object that succeeds.

Commands specify the list of objects and versions they expect to operate on in the `_reads` field. The `_reads` field contains a map of object `reference_id` to object versions.  A command is only allowed to read or mutate objects that are referred to within this map. Upon a command being successful all object versions are increased by one. A command failure leaves the object versions unchanged.

> Given the state of an object there is an unambigious way to define who the **next writer** to the object should be (unless the object is in a terminal state and no more commands should be issued on it). Only this VASP is allowed to issue a command to update this Object, and a command from the other VASP will be rejected as a command failure. This prevents concurrent attempts to update Objects that could lead to inconsistencies.

Reviewer 3: this is not very clear about what it means of "unambigious way to define who the next writer", 
if I understand correctly, it means the command object (like PaymentObject) design should ensure the unambigious definition of next writer.
may add a ref link to below "PaymentObject Protocol Command Sequence" for example

# Network Error Handling

> In the case of network failure, the sending party for this Command is required to re-send the Command until it gets a response from the counterparty VASP.  An exponential backoff is suggested for Command re-sends.  This retransmission strategy allows the Off-Chain Protocol to achieve [eventual consistency](#eventual-consistency) of the Shared Objects.

Author: This does create a complication: the initiating VASP may not know if the other VASP has received and processed the message. So it cannot assume that because it did not get a response yet, it may never get a response?

> In the case of network failure, the sending party for this Command is required to re-send the Command until it gets a response from the counterparty VASP.  An exponential backoff is suggested for Command re-sends.  This retransmission strategy allows the Off-Chain Protocol to achieve [eventual consistency](#eventual-consistency) of the Shared Objects.

Reviewer 2: fair enough

| _ObjectType  | str    | Y | Fixed value: `CommandRequestObject`|
| command_type | str    | Y | A string representing the type of Command contained in the request. |
| command      | Command object | Y | The Command to sequence. |

> | cid | str    | Y     | A unique identifier for the Command. Should be a UUID according to [RFC4122](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4122). |

Reviewer: I can't recall why we need this anymore.  Isn't the header covering this now?

Reviewer 3: I think header x-request-id is per request, but the cid can be same if the command was processed with error and client side retried the command with a new http request

Reviewer: Discussed offline and cid is largely for debugging purposes right now.  It allows replayed requests with different request IDs to be seen as a single command and traced against eachtoehr

| _ObjectType    | str      | Y             | The fixed string `CommandResponseObject`. |
| status         | str      | Y             | Either `success` or `failure`. |
| error          | List of [OffChainErrorObject](#offchainerrorobject) | N | Details on errors when status == "failure" |

> | cid            | str      | N | The Command identifier to which this is a response. Should be a UUID according to [RFC4122](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4122). |

Reviewer: Same comment here

Reviewer: And if we do end up not needing these, we need to remove them from all examples as well

|-------	     |------	|-----------	|-------------	|
| _ObjectType    | str      | Y             | The fixed string `CommandResponseObject`. |
| status         | str      | Y             | Either `success` or `failure`. |

> | error          | OffChainErrorObject(#offchainerrorobject) | N | Details of the error when status == "failure" |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| error          | [OffChainErrorObject](#offchainerrorobject) | N | Details of the error when status == "failure" |
```

Reviewer: You need the brackets still because that's the markdown for a link

|-------	    |------	|-----------	|-------------	|
| _ObjectType   | str  | Y             | The fixed string `PaymentCommand` |
| payment| [`PaymentObject`](#paymentobject) | Y | contains a `PaymentObject` that either creates a new payment or updates an existing payment. Note that strict validity check apply when updating payments, that are listed in the section below describing these Objects. An invalid update or initial payment Object results in a Command error
```
{
    "_ObjectType": "PaymentCommand",
    "payment": {
        PaymentObject(),
    }
}
```

> The contents of `payment` in a `PaymentCommand` either create or update a `PaymentObject`. The field `reference_id` must always be included in `payment` to determine which object is created or updated. In case of update there is an existing Object with the given `reference_id`, and the contents of the `payment` field update or add to the fields that already exist -- validation happens on the resulting, updated, object. This enables transfering only the updated fields within a `PaymentCommand`, rather than retransmitting the full state of the `PaymentObject` (which is also valid).

Author: Simpler is better, so I removed this section.

}
```

### PaymentObject

The structure in this Object can be a full payment or just the fields of an existing payment Object that need to be changed. Some fields are immutable after they are defined once (see below). Others can by updated multiple times. Updating immutable fields with a different value results in a Command error, but it is acceptable to re-send the same value.

| Field 	    | Type 	| Required? 	| Description 	|
|-------	    |------	|-----------	|-------------	|
| sender/receiver | [`PaymentActorObject`](#paymentactorobject) | Required for payment creation | Information about the sender/receiver in this payment |

> | reference_id | str | Y | Unique reference ID of this payment on the payment initiator VASP (the VASP which originally created this payment Object). This value should be unique. This field is mandatory on payment creation and immutable after that. The field contains a subset of characters in the set [`A-Za-z0-9_-`] and has a maximum length of 64 characters. Should be a UUID according to [RFC4122](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4122). |

Reviewer 2: Remove
> The field contains a subset of characters in the set [`A-Za-z0-9_-`] and has a maximum length of 64 characters.

?

| address | str | Y | Address of the sender/receiver account. Addresses may be single use or valid for a limited time, and therefore VASPs should not rely on them remaining stable across time or different VASP addresses. The addresses are encoded using bech32. The bech32 address encodes both the address of the VASP as well as the specific user's subaddress. They should be no longer than 80 characters. Mandatory and immutable. For Libra addresses, refer to "account identifier" section in LIP-5 for format. |
| kyc_data | [KycDataObject](#kycdataobject) | N | The KYC data for this account. This field is optional but immutable once it is set. |
| status | [StatusObject](#statusobject) | Y | Status of the payment from the perspective of this actor. This field can only be set by the respective sender/receiver VASP and represents the status on the sender/receiver VASP side. This field is mandatory by this respective actor (either sender or receiver side) and mutable. |

> | metadata | list of str | N | Can be specified by the respective VASP to hold metadata that the sender/receiver VASP wishes to associate with this payment. It may be set to an empty list (i.e. `[]`). New string-typed entries can be appended at the end of the list, but not deleted.

Author: Removed it.

| Field 	    | Type 	| Required? 	| Description 	|
|-------	    |------	|-----------	|-------------	|
| sender/receiver | [`PaymentActorObject`](#paymentactorobject) | Required for payment creation | Information about the sender/receiver in this payment |

> | reference_id | str | Y | Unique reference ID of this payment on the payment initiator VASP (the VASP which originally created this payment Object). This value should be global unique. This field is mandatory on payment creation and immutable after that. We recommend use a 128 bits long UUID according to [RFC4122](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4122). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| reference_id | str | Y | Unique reference ID of this payment on the payment initiator VASP (the VASP which originally created this payment Object). This value should be globally unique. This field is mandatory on payment creation and immutable after that. We recommend use a 128 bits long UUID according to [RFC4122](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4122). |
```

* `ready_for_settlement` - Transaction is ready for settlement according to this actor (i.e. the required signatures/KYC data have been provided)
* `abort` - Indicates the actor wishes to abort this payment, instead of settling it.
* `soft_match` - Actor's KYC data resulted in a soft-match.

# PaymentObject Protocol Command Sequence

**PaymentObject State.** The state of a `PaymentObject` is used to determine which VASP is expected to issue a command next, and what information is expected to be included in the command to progress the payment. The state is determined by the tuple of the status of the Sender and Receiver Actors and two flags `Sx` and `Rx`. The exact fields in the payment object for Sender and Receiver actor status are `sender.status.status` and `receiver.status.status`. The flag `Sx` and `Rx` are set when the Sender or the Receiver has included `additional_kyc_data` in the actor field (`Sender.kyc_data.additional_kyc_data` and `Receiver.kyc_data.additional_kyc_data` respectively).

The states (Sender Status, Receiver Status, Sx Flag, Rx Flag) are:

Basic KYC exchange flow

* SINIT: (`need_kyc_data`, `none`, `*`, `*`)

> * RSEND: (`need_kyc_data`, `ready_for_settlement`, `*`, `*`)

Author: "SETTED" has a meaning in payments and finance, and is likely to confuse. This is why I used neutral terms like SEND and READY here.

* SSOFT (`soft_match`, `ready_for_settlement`, `*`, `_`)
* RSOFTSEND (`soft_match`, `ready_for_settlement`, `*`, `Rx`)

A star (`*`) denotes _any_ value, while an underscore (`_`) for a flag denotes _not set_.

**Final States and next Writer.** The sender and receiver of the payment take turns issuing `PaymentCommand` Objects, until the object they create or mutate is in one of the final states, namely SABORT, RABORT or READY. The VASP that is the sender of the Payment always creates the Payment Object, and then the receiver and sender take turns to issue commands updating it.

**Protocol Flow Illustration & VASP logic**. Below is a high level illustration of the commands and internal processes a sender and receiver VASPs to define a payment, and update it until it reaches a final state. Light blue blocks represent successful PaymentCommand requests and responses that create or update the PaymentObject. Each is labelled from 1-9, and we will reference these labels when discussing each step in details below.

<img alt="Command Exchange" src={useBaseUrl('img/LIP1-PaymentBusinessFlow.png')} />

## Steps of the protocol: The KYC Exchange Flow

> The basic KYC exchange flow starts with the Sender including KYC information and requesting KYC information by the receiver. In the straight-forward case the Receiver is satisfied with this information and responds with a command providing the receiver KYC information, and recipient signature. The Sender can then finalize the payment and also settle it on-chain (status sequence SINIT -> RSEND -> READY). At each step Sender or Receiver may also abort the payment.

Author: Nice suggestion: I used your suggested language.

> The basic KYC exchange flow starts with the Sender including KYC information and requesting KYC information by the receiver. In the straight-forward case the Receiver is satisfied with this information and responds with a command providing the receiver KYC information, and recipient signature. The Sender can then finalize the payment and also settle it on-chain (status sequence SINIT -> RSEND -> READY). At each step Sender or Receiver may also abort the payment.

Author: I tried to include some more insight, but the full description follows after this short overview.

```

### StatusEnum

Valid values are the unicode strings:
* `none` - No status is yet set from this actor.
* `needs_kyc_data` - KYC data about the subaddresses is required by this actor.

> * `ready_for_settlement` - Transaction is ready for settlement according to this actor (i.e. the required signatures/KYC data have been provided)

Reviewer: Do we still want this state?  Looking at the diagram below, not sure it actually means anything anymore

* `Receiver.kyc_data` = The `KycDataObject` representing the receiver.
* `recipient_signature` = a valid recipient signature.

### SINIT -> RABORT (Step 9)
The Receiver issues `PaymentCommand` to update an existing payment.

The receiver VASP examines the sender KYC information and is either not satisfied the payment can proceed, needs more time to process the KYC information, or requires additional information to determine if the payment can proceed. It includes a command to abort the payment with an appropriate error code.

* `Receiver.Status.Status`: `abort`
* `Receiver.Status.abort_code`: one of `no-kyc-needed` or `rejected`.

The sender can initiate a payment on-chain in case of an abort with `no-kyc-needed`.

### RSEND -> READY (Step 7)

The Sender issues `PaymentCommand` to update an existing payment.

The Sender VASP examines the KYC information from the Receiver and is satisfied the payment can proceed.

* `Sender.Status.Status`: `ready_for_settlement`

The payment can be executed on-chain by the sender (or settled in any other way).

### RSEND -> SABORT (Step 9)

The Sender issues `PaymentCommand` to update an existing payment.

> The sender VASP requires more time, has a soft match for the receiver or cannot proceed with the payment. It issues an abort command:

Reviewer 3: when it has soft match for the receiver, why abort?

* `Sender.Status.Status`: `abort`

> * `Sender.Status.abort_code`: one of `pending`, `soft-match`, or `rejected`.

Reviewer 3: why "soft-match" is abort code? what is difference comparing with sender send status = soft-match?

```

### StatusEnum

Valid values are the unicode strings:
* `none` - No status is yet set from this actor.
* `needs_kyc_data` - KYC data about the subaddresses is required by this actor.
* `ready_for_settlement` - Transaction is ready for settlement according to this actor (i.e. the required signatures/KYC data have been provided)
* `abort` - Indicates the actor wishes to abort this payment, instead of settling it.
* `soft_match` - Actor's KYC data resulted in a soft-match.

# PaymentObject Protocol Command Sequence

**PaymentObject State.** The state of a `PaymentObject` is used to determine which VASP is expected to issue a command next, and what information is expected to be included in the command to progress the payment. The state is determined by the tuple of the status of the Sender and Receiver Actors and two flags `Sx` and `Rx`. The exact fields in the payment object for Sender and Receiver actor status are `sender.status.status` and `receiver.status.status`. The flag `Sx` and `Rx` are set when the Sender or the Receiver has included `additional_kyc_data` in the actor field (`Sender.kyc_data.additional_kyc_data` and `Receiver.kyc_data.additional_kyc_data` respectively).

> The states (Sender Status, Receiver Status, Sx Flag, Rx Flag) are:

Reviewer: Should we replace Sx and Rx references with just Sender.kyc_data.additional_kyc_data and Receiver.kyc_data.additional_kyc_data?  It feels a bit confusing to me to call them flags when they really aren't and there is no such thing as Sx and Rx they are just concepts

Reviewer 2: or `sender_set_additional_kyc` and `receiver_set_additional_kyc` in literal words

* `needs_kyc_data` - KYC data about the subaddresses is required by this actor.

> * `needs_recipient_signature` - Can only be associated with the sender actor.  Means that the sender still requires that the recipient VASP provide the signature so that the transaction can be put on-chain.

Reviewer 3: we said remove needs_recipient_signature, right?

Author: Its gone :)

# PaymentObject Protocol Command Sequence

**PaymentObject State.** The state of a `PaymentObject` is used to determine which VASP is expected to issue a command next, and what information is expected to be included in the command to progress the payment. The state is determined by the tuple of the status of the Sender and Receiver Actors and two flags `Sx` and `Rx`. The exact fields in the payment object for Sender and Receiver actor status are `sender.status.status` and `receiver.status.status`. The flag `Sx` and `Rx` are set when the Sender or the Receiver has included `additional_kyc_data` in the actor field (`Sender.kyc_data.additional_kyc_data` and `Receiver.kyc_data.additional_kyc_data` respectively).

The states (Sender Status, Receiver Status, Sx Flag, Rx Flag) are:

Basic KYC exchange flow

* SINIT: (`need_kyc_data`, `none`, `*`, `*`)
* RSEND: (`need_kyc_data`, `ready_for_settlement`, `*`, `*`)
* RABORT: (`need_kyc_data`, `abort`)
* SABORT: (`abort`, `ready_for_settlement`, `*`, `*`)
* READY: (`ready_for_settlement`, `ready_for_settlement`, `*`, `*`)

Soft-match disambiguation states:

> * RSOFT (`need_kyc`, `soft_match`, `_`, `_`)

Reviewer 3: need_kyc => need_kyc_data

> * SSOFTSEND (`need_kyc`, `soft_match`, `Sx`, `_`)

Reviewer 3: need_kyc => need_kyc_data

* SSOFT (`soft_match`, `ready_for_settlement`, `*`, `_`)

> * RSOFTSEND (`soft_match`, `ready_for_settlement`, `*`, `Rx`)

Reviewer 3: is receiver allowed to abort when sender send soft match?
 (soft_match, abort)

similarly, when receiver send soft_match, could sender abort?

* `Sender.Status.Status`: `ready_for_settlement`

The payment should be executed on-chain by the sender (or settled in any other way) following the success of the command.

### RSEND -> SABORT (Step 9)

The Sender issues `PaymentCommand` to update an existing payment.

The sender VASP receives the Receiver KYC information and decides it cannot proceed with the payment. It issues an abort command:

* `Sender.Status.Status`: `abort`
* `Sender.Status.abort_code`: `rejected`.

## Steps of the protocol: The soft-match states and flows

A _soft-match_ occurs when a VASP checks provided KYC, but cannot disambiguate whether a party to the payment is potentially high-risk or sanctioned, just with the information provided. This may occur because the identifiers used (names, dates of birth, addresses) may partially match and are noisy. In such cases the VASP may require further information from the other VASP to process the payment, some of which may require manual intervention and interaction.

The flows below allow the Receiver VASP and the Sender VASP to request additional KYC information from each other.

### Receiver soft-match (SINIT -> RSOFT -> SSOFTSEND)

> After the Sender initiates a payment by providing KYC information (SINIT), the Receiver may determine they require more information to disambiguate a match. In that case they commit a command to set `Receiver.Status.Status` to `soft-match` (state RSOFT) (Step 5) or abort (step 9). The sender may respond with a command that populates the `Sender.additional_kyc_data` (Step 6), which sets the flag `Sender.additional_kyc_data` (state SSOFTSEND) or abort (SABORT, Step not shown in diagram). Finally, if the Receiver is satisfied with the additional information they move to provide all information necessary to go to RSEND (Step 4, see above. This includes receiver KYC information and recipient signature). Otherwise, the receiver can abort to state RABORT (Step 8).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the Sender initiates a payment by providing KYC information (SINIT), the Receiver may determine they require more information to disambiguate a match. In that case they commit a command to set `Receiver.Status.Status` to `soft-match` (state RSOFT) (Step 5) or abort (step 9). The sender may respond with a command that populates the `Sender.additional_kyc_data` (Step 6), which sets the field `Sender.additional_kyc_data` (state SSOFTSEND) or abort (SABORT, Step not shown in diagram). Finally, if the Receiver is satisfied with the additional information they move to provide all information necessary to go to RSEND (Step 4, see above. This includes receiver KYC information and recipient signature). Otherwise, the receiver can abort to state RABORT (Step 8).
```

* `Sender.Status.Status`: `ready_for_settlement`

The payment should be executed on-chain by the sender (or settled in any other way) following the success of the command.

### RSEND -> SABORT (Step 9)

The Sender issues `PaymentCommand` to update an existing payment.

The sender VASP receives the Receiver KYC information and decides it cannot proceed with the payment. It issues an abort command:

* `Sender.Status.Status`: `abort`
* `Sender.Status.abort_code`: `rejected`.

## Steps of the protocol: The soft-match states and flows

A _soft-match_ occurs when a VASP checks provided KYC, but cannot disambiguate whether a party to the payment is potentially high-risk or sanctioned, just with the information provided. This may occur because the identifiers used (names, dates of birth, addresses) may partially match and are noisy. In such cases the VASP may require further information from the other VASP to process the payment, some of which may require manual intervention and interaction.

The flows below allow the Receiver VASP and the Sender VASP to request additional KYC information from each other.

> ### Receiver soft-match (SINIT -> RSOFT -> SSOFTSEND)

Reviewer 5: Do we write anywhere how long a VASP should expect to wait for a soft match response?

Reviewer: Updated to include DIP 5 link.  Updated to use wording on request sender address header

Reviewer: Updated to say that soft matches are suggested to be cleared within 24 hours

)

# on-chain account address in hexadecimal (https://github.com/libra/lip/blob/master/lips/lip-5.md#terminology)

> sender_libra_address_hex = "793251de1a61e9b4d1a17d13aa015e45

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
sender_libra_address_hex = "793251de1a61e9b4d1a17d13aa015e45"
```

```
from diem import txnmetadata, stdlib, utils, diem_types

reference_id = "bb991d8e3e6011eb8eaeacde48001122"
sender_account_address = utils.account_address("793251de1a61e9b4d1a17d13aa015e45")
amount = 1_000_000_000

lcs_metadata, _ = txnmetadata.travel_rule(reference_id, sender_account_address, amount)

script = stdlib.encode_peer_to_peer_with_metadata_script(
    currency=utils.currency_code("XUS"),
    payee=receiver_account_address,
    amount=amount,
    metadata=lcs_metadata,
    metadata_signature=receiver_metadata_signature,
)

diem_types.RawTransaction(
    sender=sender_account_address,
    payload=diem_types.TransactionPayload__Script(script),
    ...
}
```

For additional details, see https://dip.diem.com/dip-4/#c-to-c-transaction-flow or https://github.com/diem/client-sdk-python/blob/master/examples/p2p_transfer.py#L127

# Reference Implementation

> A reference implementation of the Off-Chain Protocol is located at https://github.com/libra/off-chain-reference.

Reviewer: Is this still the URL or has it been updated for diem?

Reviewer 2: diem => https://github.com/diem/off-chain-reference
